TITLE: 2.overview.m4a  
SOURCE_FILE: data/training_recordings/2.overview.m4a  
LANGUAGE: en  

All right, so for the very first section of your sale, you know what's to come. We have four core tenets of the sale: the introduction, where you introduce yourself to the client and build credibility by sending your state ID and validating the information you have. 

The second phase is why. Why are they purchasing? Who's in charge when they pass away? We're going to dig into a first and second level of understanding on their why, so that you can use that information to best serve them with the product that you're structuring for their policy. 

Your next phase, once you understand why the client wants to purchase, is setting structure and expectations. The client could have the biggest why in the world, and it's super important for them to get it. If they don't have structure—hey, this is what happens, this is what we're going to do today, this is how this process works, and this is how it works when you apply—they need to have some understanding of what our job is so that we can move them through a smooth close. Instead of getting all this info from them and then having them object at the end, we need to provide direction. So that's going to be our structure phase. 

The next phase, post-structure, is your suitability phase. This is where we gather client data. We have a client worksheet designed specifically in the order that I always ask the questions: age, income, house, health, current insurance. That will be attached to your script. When you get that, it's the client worksheet or client suitability sheet. 

Your suitability phase is where we figure out income, health, and product placement. That's where you're going to learn what direction we're going to go and how we're going to pitch them, and what that's going to look like for coverage amounts within their budget. So suitability is about figuring out what they qualify for based on age, health, and income, and then placing them. 

The next section is your presentation to close. We'll discuss how to present numbers and prep for some objections in this phase. Typically, if you've done all these first phases correctly, you'll have significantly fewer objections at the end of your number presentation because you set clear expectations up front. You know why they want to buy, you know their income, you know their health, and you'll be able to direct them financially from an affordability and eligibility standpoint. 

Your close is just asking for ID and moving into the application process assumptively. 

So let's break down this introduction piece. When you're reaching out to a lead, the good news is you will be primarily working with generic internet final expense leads, veterans leads, and Ethos life insurance leads. All the concepts when you're outbound dialing them are the same. 

"Hey, John, this is Easton. I'm just getting back to you about the request you sent in for life insurance for veterans. I have here that your branch of service is the Army. Is that correct? I have your date of birth as June 2, 1961. Is that correct?" 

Perfect. Again, my name is Easton. My job is super easy. Then you're going to move into the next phase of your script, which is all written out for you to follow along. 

When you call, address them by their first name and introduce yourself with your first name. If you call and say, "Oh, hi, is this Mr. Valdez?" you're not speaking to them with familiarity. We want them to assume that we know who this is. So when I call and say, "Hey, John," they might respond, "Oh yeah, who's this?" I would say, "Hey, this is Easton. I'm getting back to you about X." 

If I say, "Oh, is Mr. X here?" they already know you don't know them because their friends or people who know them don't address them like that. There are always rare exceptions, like if you're calling in the deep South and they prefer "Ms. X." But for the most part, we want to be familiar with who we're talking to. 

If you're calling John and a lady answers, as soon as she answers the phone, say, "Hey, is John around?" I'm not going to say, "Oh, is this Mrs. John's wife?" I'm just going to say, "Hey, is John around?" If they say, "Oh, who is this?" I would respond, "Oh, hey, this is Easton just calling him back." That's as far as I take it. I'm just trying to get the person who sent me the form on the phone. 

If they're not around, you can say, "Hey, this is Easton. I was just giving him a call back. He had reached out for some veterans life insurance help. He filled out our request quote form on Ethos trying to get some info on what his quotes would be." You're just trying to talk to the person who made the initial request for life insurance. 

So again, everything is first name, use your first name. Everything you do is getting back to them about the request they sent us. Across all platforms and all lead types, that's exactly how you want to have that conversation. 

Then you're just going to confirm whatever information is on that form. I prefer to confirm staple information like beneficiary and birthday. Those are typically fixed. People can move, and bad emails can get put in there. For the most part, if you can confirm birthday and beneficiary, then you can start asking, "Hey, are you still in the state of Kansas? I've got on here that you live off Main Street. Is that still correct? Did you move?" 

You're trying to prep to get in front of the objection of "that's not my address" because people could have moved or put in a bad address, or the platform could auto-generate an old one unintentionally. So always confirm staple info, which for me is birthday, branch of service for vets, and beneficiary. 

You're just looking to confirm, "Hey, is this your information? Is that correct?" Yes. As soon as you get that response, you're going to jump into the next section. 

"Okay, great. And then what about this piece of info?" You're going to do those confirmations. Once we're on the same page—hey, yep, this is the person, they have 10 or 15 minutes to go through this right now, and all the decision-makers are present—that's when you're going to reintroduce yourself. 

"Okay, great. Well, you know, hey, my name is Easton. I'm in charge of all the eligibility stuff to figure out what you qualify for and how we can help." 

Before we get too carried away, this is where I'll introduce that credibility. "Hey, before we get too carried away, is this the correct email address for you, or do you still get texts on your phone?" 

Awesome. I'm going to send you over all of my license and ID stuff before we get too far here so that you know that I'm allowed to talk to you and help you. Whatever your version of that is, I want to send that license over to them in the beginning. Even if they say, "Oh, I'm not worried about that. Let's just get into this," you can bring that back up before you go over numbers and start collecting personal info like social security and bank information. 

You're going to want to make sure that you have that credibility piece, even if they're not concerned about it. I also say, "Hey, is this the right email? Do you get texts?" Then I will email and text them my state license screenshot so that we don't have any weird issues about, "Oh, I don't even know you. I don't know if I should give this to you." 

I want to build that early so that before we even get into any kind of information they're giving, they have all of my state ID credentials. They know that I'm legit and this is what I do. 

From an introduction standpoint, again, quick recap: first names only, getting back to them, confirming information on the lead source, and then sending over all of your credentials. Even if they don't check them right there, just remember, before you present numbers and get into the application phase of our appointment, you're going to want to make sure, "Hey, can you pull up your email or text? I just want to make sure that you got my state ID because we are required to give that to you." 

I tell them that because I always want to err on the safe side of them having too much of my information instead of not enough. I don't want to have any weird issues with, "I don't feel comfortable giving you my social or bank information," which will always be an objection you'll run into a little bit here and there. But the smoother you make it up front and the more relaxed confidence you have throughout your process, you'll get less and less of that. 

So just set the proper expectations up front, verify ID credentials. This is when we're going to move into the why section of our appointment, which we'll cover in the next video.
