TITLE: 3. Why

Alright, so we're going to jump into the why section of your appointments. This is where we figure out why they need to purchase the insurance. Who's in charge when you pass away? What does it look like? This is a core piece of all of your appointments. 

Now, you can get away with not having a why that's super deep, but if there is no person in charge when they pass away or they're indifferent, this is a really weird thing for people to buy unless they're concerned about somebody else afterward. So I would say uncover the need for purchase, be very assumptive, and get direction for your appointment.

An example of finding direction: Hey, if I'm talking to a veteran, I'll always assume, "Are you looking for something small, like 20, 30, or 40 thousand dollars of permanent insurance?" Is that kind of what you're looking for? Almost all of them are going to say yes, and if not, they'll correct you on what they're looking for.

Why is this important to notice? If they are 65 to 70 plus looking for these really big amounts, first of all, it's an enormous health eligibility problem because they're 65 plus and then 250 grand. If you're in your mid-70s, even 65 plus, it's expensive. So when you hear that, it triggers a red flag that says it sounds like you're just looking to purchase as much as you can possibly afford to leave behind for your family. Does that sound about right? And they will typically agree.

So again, direction: "Hey, you guys looking for something smaller, 20, 30, 40 grand?" Almost all of them are going to say yes. If you're working with veterans or final expense type leads, that is what they're looking for. So you can assume that if you get a yes right there, then you're going to ask, "Okay, do you have somebody specific in charge of handling that for you when you pass away? Is it a kid, a spouse? Tell me about that a little bit." This is your step one. 

So you're going to get that person and get direction. With the why, I always like to get one more level deep, especially if it's not a spouse. If it's a spouse, then you can confirm direction: "Okay, so short version is if you go, whether it's funeral or income type stuff, your wife is going to need some kind of financial help when you pass away, correct?" Yes. If it's a household like that in the same place, I will just get that base direction. 

Then when I get into the client suitability where I'm uncovering income and income loss, I will open that why up and bring up that financial loss more aggressively inside the client suitability sheet. If it's again a baseline direction and it's a spouse, I know that they probably need funeral help and there's probably going to be a change in income because basically nobody has a hundred percent survivorship across the board with all streams of income when they're in retirement. Social Security, you get to keep one. Retirements, you usually get to keep 40 to 50 percent or zero. 

So again, "Hey, yeah, my wife's going to be in charge." Okay, so short version is if you go, she's just going to need some financial help, whether it's funeral or income replacement, but you want to leave her something. Yes. Okay, cool. 

If it's a kid, that's when you want to slow down and take maybe just a little extra time. If I go, "Oh, yeah, it's my son." Cool. "Does he live with you? Are you in the same state? If he's out of state, is he married? Does he have kids? What does he do for work?" I'm asking these questions so that I can basically go, "Okay, so short version is if you were to pass away tomorrow, there's no way that your kid could shell out this kind of money overnight and take time off work, still handle his own bills and stuff for his family. Fair enough?" Yes. 

Okay, got it. So what we're looking for is some kind of minimal financial relief, at least a start, so he's not having to shell all this out of pocket. Does that sound about right? And I'm going to do another confirmation of what we're going to do today. 

So that is your general direction for a why for funeral type stuff. Again, if it's kids or family, if it's a spouse, get the direction early, and then you'll reopen that inside the client worksheet, which I will go through in that video. If it's a kid, just follow up with a couple of extra questions: "Hey, awesome. What are they doing for work? Where do they live? Are they married? Do they have kids?" 

Okay, got it. So the short version is you just don't want them to have to come up with this kind of money overnight, and then they wouldn't have any way to still support their own. That's kind of the relief of burden for whoever's in charge. Understanding one more in-depth level of the kid situation will help you create enough value to get higher premium closes.

Okay, and then if we are talking about an ethos or a term lead or somebody that's like, "Oh, I'm actually looking for a bigger chunk, like a hundred plus thousand." Got it. Is that to cover income replacement? Are you guys trying to pay off a chunk of the home, or is this more of a legacy plan where you're just trying to leave as much money behind as you possibly can to your kids and family? Tell me about that a little bit. 

Then you're going to get direction that they're going to take you from there. If I was like, "Oh yeah, I'm still working full time. My wife's a stay-at-home mom," or it's flipped or whatever, we're trying to figure out, "Hey, what do they have for insurance now?" And then why are they looking for a supplemental solution? "Well, yeah, I've got one year of my income replaced at work, but that's all that I have." 

Okay, got it. So the only thing that you have is company-owned life insurance, and it's only worth one year of your income. So it's not enough to support and cover your loss of income long term. Again, we'll open that up with math inside the client worksheet where we'll go, "Okay, you make six grand a month at 72 a year. So in 10 years, we're talking 720 grand out of your income." 

That just makes sense why you're looking into this, and we're going to build value inside that section of the appointment a little bit later. But upfront, you're getting direction, you're getting a commitment, and you're trying to understand, "Okay, so if you did go tomorrow, have you guys talked about what this is going to look like? Do you have a game plan on where she's going to live? Or is that why you're looking for this?" 

Then you're just trying to figure out why they want these bigger chunks: income replacement, covering some of the home are going to be kind of your two biggest priorities. Or like, "Hey, you want to make sure that your funeral is covered, the house is covered, the income is covered," and now you're going to get into these bigger term or IUL express type sales. 

You absolutely need to have a direction to take your appointment. If they're just giving you the, "Oh, I'm honestly just curious," or, "Oh, hey, I'm just looking for quotes," your response is the same every time: "Are you looking for quotes because you want to buy insurance, or are you curious because you want to know what it costs to buy insurance?" 

So if they're like, "Oh, I'm kind of just looking for quotes," got it. I mean, you're looking for quotes because you don't have any insurance now, or you just have a little bit and it's not quite enough. What are you looking for quotes for? Because that's the only reason: either they don't have any or they don't have enough. 

You just need to get an answer upfront, and then we can take that and move forward with that direction. "Oh, so you have some and it's not enough. What do you have now? How long have you had it? Who's it through? When does it expire? What was your primary concern?" Like, "When this runs out, she's not going to be able to stay here and live?" 

You're just going to get them to tell you why they don't feel like they have enough now, and then you can proceed with the rest of the appointment and have direction. It's pretty much the exact same thing across the quotes or curious objection. It's going to be pretty much identical from what we do. 

So, "Oh, I'm just curious," curious because you don't have any now, you know, you have a little bit and it's not enough, or you're just curious because you're not sure what a game plan would be if you pass away tomorrow for kids, family, whatever the situation is. Then they're going to tell you, and you're like, "Okay, now I have enough information here to move forward." 

Now, again, who's the beneficiary? Spouse, kids? I'll have notes in here for you guys to look at for a couple of follow-up questions as well that the PowerPoint kind of matches this section. So that is it for our why, then we're going to move into our structure phase next.
