TITLE: 4. Structure

Alright guys, welcome to the structure phase training of our appointment. This is what I would say, it's a coin toss whether this is more important than the why. Having a baseline why you have to have, but if you are setting a really solid structure of what's going to take place in every single appointment, your odds of getting a commitment to close are significantly higher.

So here's a baseline. I'll give you guys a baseline structure that's super short and sweet so you don't have to try to regurgitate this like a book-long statement. My structure statement on the really simple side is just, this is what our job is. 

So, hey, my job is super easy. Basically, what I'm going to do is we underwrite for like 30, 40, 50 some companies. So we're going to shop through all these companies and find the company that gives it to you for the cheapest. Then you're going to pick and custom design your plan in price. After that, I'm going to take your information and send it over to the insurance company asking them to approve you for what you would like to have. Does that make sense? Does that sound easy enough? 

And like that is your simple straightforward structure phase. Your more thorough version of that would be, hey, we underwrite for like 50 different insurance companies, all state regulated. They only vary like two to five or two to ten bucks per company. So what we do is basically we're going to shop through all these companies. Whichever one of those companies comes back showing the most insurance for the cheapest possible rates, that's the company that we're going to match you with. 

From there, you're going to custom build out your own plan. We don't care if you do 10, 50, 100, 10 million, whatever number it is that you're looking for that fits in your financial bracket and your budget. You're going to design it to the scent of what's a good fit for you. Once you have that set up how you want, I'm just going to send your information to that insurance company as a request for coverage, asking them to approve you for what you are looking for. Does that make sense? Does that sound easy enough? 

OK, awesome. So this is where you are closing, soft closing your entire appointment right through the suitability. You intro it for credibility. You've confirmed their information. We know exactly why they want to purchase, who's in charge, and what it looks like without it. Now we jump into, hey, my job is super easy. We've got 50 companies. We shop all of them to see who's the cheapest. You design your own plan and price. Then we just take your info, send it to the insurance company on your behalf to make sure that they will approve you for what you are looking for. Does that make sense? 

And that is your statement to confirm your close. If you can do that on repeat for all of your appointments and not ever miss that structure statement, you're giving direction so people don't get lost and they don't think we're just going through the motions for a quote. That will get rid of a ton of objections if you set that structure phase up front that today we are finding a company, you're finding a price, and I'm making sure they'll take you for what you're asking for. That is a staple statement you have to have in all of your appointments to go through that close process much smoother. 

OK, this is it for structure. We're going to jump into the suitability phase next.
