TITLE: 5.suitability.m4a  
SOURCE_FILE: data/training_recordings/5.suitability.m4a  
LANGUAGE: en  

Okay, so welcome to the suitability portion, and you guys should be looking at the PDF or the attached image of what I'm about to go through with you. This is the process that I go through getting the client's information and how I'm picking apart their data so that I can try to appropriately maximize their budget so they can get really good coverage that's still enough for the beneficiary but also smoothly fits inside their budget month to month, which is a statement that I will share with the client while I'm going through this stuff.

So as soon as we get the structure statement commitment of like, yep, that sounds perfect. Like, okay, cool. Now, John, let me just jump up here and let me confirm your age. I've got you at 71 years young. Does that sound correct? Okay. Awesome. And then this is your date of birth. X, X, X. Okay. Sweet. Now, did you say if you smoke or anything? Yes? No?

The next section right here is the beneficiary. Remember, they had brought up earlier who was in charge. So I'm going to say, okay, now you said that it was your oldest that was in charge. What was their name again? I'm going to get their birthday and then reconfirm right there. Okay. Now, do you want any backups? Are you having a split at all or are they the only one that's responsible? Do you want to list anybody else? And I'm going to write down their beneficiary information right there.

From there, I'm going to jump down into all of my soft budget questions. So I'm not looking to go line by line through every minute charge on their bank statement. One thing that you'll learn about human beings is that a lot of times if we have extra income every single month, we spend it on things we don't need. If you keep that in mind, your average middle to upper-middle to lower-income American, we are spenders. We do not save money. So if they have a $1,200 a month budget or a $5,000 a month budget, they will probably find a way to spend the majority of that money every single month because they'd rather spend it to be happy in the present than putting anything aside.

So I'm going through soft budget, and right on this sheet, you'll see I've got mortgage/rent, year's left payment value equity, and they both on the house. Some of that information is not necessary. You're primarily looking for what do they pay on their mortgage or what do they pay for rent? So we are looking for their big non-negotiable bills. I'm not looking for, "We'd like to gamble once a month," or "I've got 38 subscriptions to these different TV services that I don't use." All of those extra non-necessary expenses are on the chopping block if it comes to an affordability issue with insurance because you can't tell me you'd rather have 11 TV services than make sure that your kids are okay financially or your spouse is okay financially when you pass away.

You want to have that conversation in a respectful manner with them, but I'm looking to gather non-negotiable expenses. So house, cars, six-figure debts, other properties, any major stuff. And then after that is when you'll ask for their, you know, "Hey, what is your ballpark monthly income?" I am a pretty big believer that you need to get their soft budget and their income so that you have some kind of rough idea of what you can build out into their budget. If you never ask those questions, you're going to immediately have a harder time placing them with something that you know fits in budget because you won't have that data or that information.

So when I'm going through this stuff, I want, again, mortgage or rent because that's usually one of the big ones, and then your car payments are the big ones, and then you have to have insurance on that. And then you have any other properties. You have any other six-figure debts. What do you guys pay in a couple hundred bucks for utilities, a couple hundred bucks for personal expenses, a couple hundred bucks for food and fun? And I'll kind of start gathering their typical month-to-month non-negotiables.

So if I find out someone makes six grand a month and then all of their outbounds total are 3,500 to 4,000, I know that, hey, out of that two grand that's left, where's all that money going? Are you guys putting anything into an emergency fund of some kind? Are you spending all of it? Are you trying to save some, spend some? Are you investing some? And then what are you investing it into? Just getting an idea of where they're putting their money every month because a really easy rule of thumb to start by when you're brand new is you want to keep any insurance option that you would show a client. You never want it to be more than 10% of their overall monthly income.

So if they make five grand a month, 500 a month would be the biggest thing under any circumstance from a baseline perspective that you would show that person, and most of the time you're probably going to want to keep it closer to that like 5% or less. So it obviously depends on their debt to income. If they have a strong income and almost no bills, then you have some wiggle room on what you can show them. But if they make 1,200 a month and their rent is 500 and they still have to pay utilities, you're working with a smaller budget. So 10% being 120, they probably are not going to be willing to spend that kind of money because they are on such a fixed or regulated income month to month.

So this is what your job is to do primarily because we will help you with the product stuff, we'll help you with the training stuff. Your job is to, once we give you a company to show, just make sure that you are paying attention enough to show them affordable options. And that is what you're going to really use this client worksheet for. So if you see on here, once I total up their bills—car payments, properties, any six-figure debts, utilities, food, anything else major that I'm missing—anything else I'm missing or anything else major that I'm missing in your month to month. 

So if I'm telling this correctly, you guys are sending out about 2,600 to 2,800 non-negotiable a month. Plus we probably want to give you a couple hundred extra bucks for stuff that pops up or emergencies. Does that sound about right? And you're just going to get these little confirmations from them so that you know that, hey, we are headed in the right direction and aiming the client in the right direction.

So I'm looking on here, the next question is going to be, "Hey, what is your ballpark monthly income?" And typically they'll have only a couple of different types. So you've got your work income, your social security, or your retirement income. And I want to get all of them because sometimes they're retired, they work part-time, and they have social coming in. And sometimes they're only on social security disability. So I just need to know what their ballpark monthly income total is. 

And then once I have that information, I can basically take their ballpark monthly income and then compare it to their typical expenses month to month. And I know what kind of, maybe we have a hundred bucks left, maybe we would have 3,000 left. That is the critical information that you're going to use to go, okay. So I already know from a budget standpoint, if I'm looking at 5%, 7%, and 9% of their total monthly, based on their income versus what's going out, this is a number that I can show them. 

So this part to me is something that I think people rush through, especially when you're new because you get nervous that it's taking too long. It's so important to have. So do not rush through this part. And you just ask it laid back and confidently, "Hey, what's your rough mortgage? Are you guys renting? Hey, what's your ballpark monthly income?" I think that that's one that people get stuck on. I don't just go like, "Hey, what do you make every month?" I say, "Hey, what is your ballpark monthly income?" It doesn't have to be to the penny. And most of the time they'll say, "Oh, it's $4,318.23." Like they'll know exactly what they're bringing in.

So once you have all that information, now we know debt to income-wise what they're making and what's outbound. So from a price standpoint, I'm already thinking like, okay, so I'm probably going to have to stay within roughly this level. I'm going to go into the medical stuff with them next. This is where we have our biggest battles because it is hard to always drag 100% honesty out of our clientele. And it makes it harder for us to place them correctly if we don't know what their actual health and medications are.

So I will ask this question, "Hey, in the last 10 years, have you had any major issues with like organ failure or major health changes like heart, liver, lungs, brain, kidneys? Have you had anything huge?" And you can give them examples: heart attack, stroke, cancer, brain aneurysm, COPD, anything that caused you to be hospitalized long-term or anything big in the last decade. And then yes, no, write it down, get the info. 

And then, "Okay, what about in the last 10 years from a prescription standpoint? What have you been prescribed? What have you been prescribed but not taken, prescribed but not filled, don't take anymore, are supposed to take it and don't?" I need every medication that's run through your health record in the last 10 years because they're going to be able to see it anyway. It just helps us place you correctly the first time. And I'm going to really ask them to give me all of their information so that I'm not randomly guessing where I'm going to put them based on maybe they're giving me the truth, maybe they're not.

The hardest thing to do is oversell a premier product, like a term or an IUL express, that they don't qualify for in the health department because you went too quickly through their health or they said, "Hey, I'm as healthy as a horse," and you assume that that was true. Healthy as a horse to our client could mean they haven't had a heart attack for two weeks and they're feeling really good, or it could mean that they're a professional triathlete. We don't know. 

So instead of rushing through that part like, "Okay, got it. So how about the last 10 years? Have you had any of this? Heart, liver, lungs, brain, kidney?" Just start listing organs. Any major health changes or issues, and then I need to know in the last 10 years, what have you been prescribed that you either take, don't take, never filled, used to take and don't take anymore? I just need all the meds you've taken in the last 10 years. 

And then you'll be able to—well, this is what I do—I just, if I don't recognize the med, which I recognize a lot of them now, I'll just Google it and figure out, "Oh, what's the health condition that's typically prescribed for it?" and then ask. "Hey, this is for heart failure. Do you have any issues with that?" Because that's a problem. That's going to be a much different direction that we're going to go or like, "Oh, it's just a diabetes med and it's pill form only. Have you had any diabetic complications?" 

It'll allow you, as you go, to get through more in-depth health questions with them because we really are trying to place them with our first application as many times as we can. Sometimes we have to run two, but if we can get all of their honest health stuff out of them, now we've got all of their health information and all of their debt to income stuff. So now we're in a position where we can jump into some product recommendations and try to place them correctly.

The only thing that I'll go back to that I forgot to bring up is if this is a husband and wife situation, when you're in that income piece, you're going to do the same stuff for both of them. I want to know what his and her working income, retirement, social, whatever that is set up, and then you want to go over, "Hey, do you know how much you guys are going to lose when the primary passes?" 

So again, if she makes six and he makes one a month out of her income, how much survivorship does he have? What's the section of social? They only get to keep the big one, and then do you have 40 to 50% of the retirement or zero? And then what I do that I think provides a lot of real-time value is I say, "Okay, well this makes complete sense. Basically, Susan, when you pass away, Gary's going to lose three grand a month right out of the gate every single year until he passes. So you're going to be $36,000 that you guys are going to lose in household income year one. Imagine if he turns 75 or turns 80, whatever that 10-year number might be. Now we're talking about $360,000 of lost income. It makes sense why you guys are looking for some financial relief because that's a big number that's gone forever. Is that kind of what prompted you guys to start looking into this even more?"

So now I already know initially why he wanted it, and now I can go, "Hey, math plus emotion equals a sale." So that is a little calculation that I will do, especially if one of them is working. Like, "Hey, you make 70 grand a year, that's 700 grand of lost income the first 10 years." That's a big statement, and it's important for them to understand the consequences of, "Hey, you're not losing a paycheck next month. This is an enormous problem. We're talking like we're sneaking up on three quarters of a million dollars over 10 years of permanently lost income."

So I wanted to not forget to touch on that where you're bringing up income loss, matching it with their health information, and then this current life insurance part. Do you have any traditional straight life insurance that you own maybe outside of a job? If they're still working, we're very focused on what they own outside of work. If they have a work policy, awesome. Ask them if you can go get more. I always tell people to get as much as you can because it's on a group plan, and you basically don't pay anything for it. And as long as you die in a certain circumstance, your work should pay.

So do you have anything that you own outside of your job? And if they do, you know, "Hey, how long is it in place? Do you know when it runs out? What company is it? What do you pay?" And you're just kind of getting basic information on there. Sometimes they'll be in a bad product we can fix, and sometimes they're just looking for a pure addition because what they have is good. Just figure out if it's a term, permanent, what they pay, the company, how long it's been in force, and then we'll kind of be able to figure out on our side with you, "Hey, is it something that we have to leave, or can we fix it, make it better?"

This is an important part where you can kind of get into, "Hey, have you done this before? Do you know how this works?" And you can kind of bring up that, "Hey, remember, this is university, age and health-based, the price doesn't change." It might not be a bad idea to either upfront figure out, "Hey, have they talked to somebody before?" or you can do it right here where they're like, "Oh, you have anything?" "Well, no, I don't have anything now." "Okay, got it. I mean, when you talked to the last person, which I'm assuming you've done relatively recently, was there a specific reason that you weren't able to move forward with what you guys looked at?"

And basically what you're trying to do is figure out, "Hey, we know that you've looked into life insurance before. Why did you not buy last time? Was it an eligibility issue or was it a price issue?" And almost always it was a price problem. Like they just didn't want to pay whatever they were pitched. So like, "Hey, do you have any insurance now?" You know, if someone's 70, I want to figure out like, "Why have you not purchased insurance ever prior to this point? Or why do you not have any now? Did it expire? Did it lapse? Did it increase in price? Or like, hey, what was the issue?" 

Obviously, I'm assuming that you've been looking at this for at least a handful of weeks, if not months. What was the biggest thing that prevented you from going active when you talked to the last person? And that's my way of assuming they talked to somebody else and turned them down, and now they're trying to see if the rates are any different with me. So if you get that out of them, was it like, "Oh yeah, they just showed me something insane." Like, "Oh God, it was the price like five, six, seven, 800 bucks a month or something." Either they're going to say no, but it was like 400, or it was like 200. Or they could say, "Oh yeah, this guy offered me, you know, X amount of insurance for like 30 bucks, and I'm never going to pay that."

You're just trying to understand who you're working with and what their understanding of price to insurance purchase is. Because if they say, "Oh yeah, they showed me something for 400 a month. I'm never ever going to pay for that." Like, I don't blame you. That's an insane thing to show you or try to convince you that you need to purchase. I would never show you anything like that because I wouldn't have my own parents pay something like that either. 

So why don't we look at this, and then you're going to at least put yourself in a position to downsell them into something which is probably going to be smaller coverage than they were requesting, but it's something that they can affordably carry, which is important for the rest of their life. The only policy that matters that they take out is the one that's enforced on the day that they die. So none of that if they over-purchase a term that's too expensive after two years or over-purchase this big giant whole life or IUL Express, but it's not sustainable long-term, it doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is that they have something affordable long-term that's going to pay out on the day that they die.

Except for that is that they buy a term on purpose, and that's what they're asking for. It is what it is. It's good for 10, 15, 20, and then when it's up, it's up. But we want to really drive home this downselling concept of, "Hey, you didn't take the one that was 400, which is probably what you have to pay if you want that bigger chunk. Obviously, it would make way more sense to leave some financial help behind instead of none. So let's get them to give us a commitment for a smaller amount of insurance that's actually affordable because that's how you get them in decision-making mode is, 'Yeah, I would never show you something that was that expensive. They probably were just trying to either oversell you or give you exactly what you wanted without being budget-conscious. Our job is not like that. Our job is to basically match you with something that you can have as long as you want, and it's there when you go, and at least provide some kind of minimal financial help left behind for your spouse, for your kids, whatever in the event that you go tomorrow. Does that make sense?' Yes? Okay, cool."

And then we can roll into this presentation phase where we're going to break down products with them and then go over prices, which will be kind of like our final phase. So when you're asking them about current life insurance or anything that acts like life insurance, this is very important because you want to know what their expectations are and do they have any understanding of how it works. Now that it's all universally age and health-based, even though we covered that before and we gave them that information up front, I want to touch on it again now and figure out, okay, so you do have something and you don't have something, and why do you not or why are you looking for more? 

And then we can get into that even deeper during this current life insurance section of the suitability sheet. So that's where I'm going to leave it.
