TITLE: 6.presentationclose.m4a  
SOURCE_FILE: data/training_recordings/6.presentationclose.m4a  
LANGUAGE: en  

All right, our final piece of our sale is our presentation to close. This was a big adjustment once we went virtual because we used to be taught, "Hey, you want to top down so they know their max option." Well, if you're not in person and you're presenting this information over the phone or through Zoom, specifically over the phone, you can get people shell shocked and they will hang up because the first price you give them is too high. So we would rather start smaller and then work our way up. 

The example I have here is 10, 15, and 20 grand. I’ll say, "Hey, put your stuff in here. Based on what you gave me, the carrier made these three baseline recommendations, and then we can move up, down, or in between from here." You're prepping yourself to have wiggle room to either increase if they want, go down if they want, or meet in the middle somewhere if they want. 

But again, remember the sale is giving the illusion of control to the client while still maintaining it yourself. You're going to give them options like, "Hey, you can go up, down, sideways, in the middle, whatever. These are the baseline options the carrier is recommending." We’re detaching ourselves from, "Hey, this is not me; this is the insurance company's recommendation." 

And again, it will be based on the data you got in the client worksheet so that you're not overpitching on price. Just remember, we are in a compassionate, empathetic-based sale, and we get so much advanced commission per sale. We don't have to live in this "I need to drive rate" phase. 

Now, you don’t want every sale that you do to default to showing $2,500 for every single sale. That’s why we start with something smaller, like 20, 30, or 40 grand at the beginning. But if you get into a tighter budget or less flexibility, your goal is not to grab every penny out of every single sale. We have lead options for a reason, and we get these big advanced commissions for a reason. 

So you don’t have to be focused on driving rate. Let’s theoretically say, "Hey, my average paid per hour is a grand in commission sales." Your persistency in keeping that money is a lot more important than trying to get that person to go to $1,500 in paid commissions. If $1,000 means that you get to keep it versus the extra $500 that rolls off after a few months and you have to pay it back, why would you risk that versus just having steady, stable business that can stay on the books long term? 

It’s always about getting the money up front first but then keeping it on the backside. We’re in a very blessed situation to have such a good multitude of lead options where we don’t have to hard pressure sell big numbers. We’re just trying to pair them with something that’s easy. 

Again, minimum baseline for you to start, and then we’ll get into how do we nudge them into making a decision while still having time to think about it because you’re going to get that relentlessly. 

So my three options, let’s say for this example, would be, "Hey, the carrier came back to me. Do you have a pen and paper ready?" I will confirm in here too, like, "Hey, you did get the text and email with all my stuff, right? You got my ID and everything? Okay, awesome." 

So your carrier recommended options just for your minimums as a heads up: they’re going to say, "Hey, 10 grand is a good baseline for you to start at as your bare minimum. This is going to come in at $72 a month. Your $15,000 option is going to come in at $112 a month." Pause. "And then your $20,000, if you wanted to go all the way up to 20 for your minimum, you’re going to be right at $152 a month." 

This is when you can’t just stop there and pause and wait. That has to be followed up with, "Okay, so out of these three, which one do you think is going to be enough for the beneficiary that’s still easy for you to handle every single month—birthdays, holidays, Christmas, emergencies—something that’ll blend no problem for you guys?" 

So again, what’s that minimum amount that you guys want to start at that blends universally into your budget that’s still enough insurance left behind for Mary, that’s still enough insurance left behind for Tom? Because that’s what we’re looking for: a minimum affordable plan, but it has to still be enough to solve the problem. 

So maybe $2,500 is the price they would like to pay because it costs them $19. That is not nearly enough to cover what they told me they wanted early, which is to cover funerals and leave a little bit behind extra. 

So okay, let’s say that we know that $112 is kind of like the middle one. If they’re like, "Well, I think I could swing the 20K. Yeah, I think I could probably do that with the $152." That doesn’t sound like they can do the $152 to me. That is my big red flag to down sell immediately. 

"Okay, so you feel pretty good about that. So why don’t we just do this to start? How this works is once I send your stuff into the insurance company, it sometimes takes 24 hours, maybe up to five to seven days. It depends on the company and the underwriting stuff that they do. But if they were to give you a green light offer for tomorrow, it sounds like you’re pretty sure that you can handle that 20K for the $152. Why don’t we just do this? Why don’t we send them in for the 15 because you know that $112 will blend universally no problem?" 

We can make sure that they’ll give you a green light offer for 15. If it comes back good, you’ll get a hard copy out in the next few weeks to your house that you guys can review. Once you do the review of your policy and have a chance to audit your budget again over the next two to four weeks, you just have to make a phone call to me. If you say, "Hey, let’s stick at 15 for the $112 to start," or "Yeah, we double-checked our budgets. It’s wide open. We might actually be able to do 25. So let’s go all the way to 25 for the $170," or whatever it would be. 

Okay, great. Our job is to get a green light offer for the minimum amount of insurance that we know is going to stick so that they have some help instead of none, but it’s easy on the budget and the beneficiary has enough help. That is our focus. 

So anytime someone’s like, "Oh, I think I should be able to handle that," or they’ll go, "$152? Ooh, that’s actually not too bad. Let me sit and chew on this for a few days." Okay, great. So how this works, as I mentioned in the beginning, is what we do is we find a bare minimum to get a green light offer from the start. 

Then over the next two to four weeks, once you get the hard copy in, you’ll do another budget audit to make sure it’s good. You can always adjust or increase or whatever you want for your policy for now. So what we do is figure out, "Hey, if the $152 is a little, you’re unsure, and then $112, why don’t we just be safe and start at 10 grand at $72 a month? It’s half of what you were pretty sure you can afford. That way you can have at least a minimum base covered." 

Once you get your stuff out, you’ll have the next two weeks to talk budget, and then you can actually do a review of your policy. If you want to change it or up it, all you have to do is call me, and I can help you with that process. It’s super easy. Everything we do is really easy and convenient for the client, regardless of how much back-end work it is for us because it’s not that much. It’s a phone call or maybe an extra signature. 

But we want to drive them to make a decision based on something easy for them to afford. So if I have any kind of hesitation or, "Yeah, we think this is good," or "Let me think on this for just a couple of days," or "Let me maybe talk to my kids," it’s all the same stuff. Awesome, I want you to talk to your kids. I want you guys to audit your budget. 

So out of these three, it sounds like you’re pretty sure you can do $152. Why don’t we just play it safe and get you in the door for a minimum offer of 15 grand, which is that $112? Once you guys actually get approved and have your base started, then again, over the next few weeks, you’ll have a chance to work through budget discussions if you want to go up, down, sideways, whatever. 

Then you’ll get that hard copy in two weeks to actually read your paperwork. You have another two weeks on top of that because insurance companies give you a 30-day window to make adjustments to your plan. So you have an entire month to audit, review, and make sure that this is where you want to land long-term or do your increase. 

So what we need, step one, as we talked about in the beginning, is I’ve got to get your info to the carrier and ask for an offer. If they give a green light offer for that lower or middle option we start with, then you guys will have something to discuss as far as where you want to be long-term. 

You’re just going to do this loop no matter what objection they give. Anything that has to do with waiting, time, or talking to people, it’s all smoke screen stuff. Especially retired people, they’ve been on the same fixed or regulated income for seven years, eight years, ten years. They know what’s coming in and out every single month, especially if it’s fixed or regulated income. 

So if they’re on social security, they’re not confused about what’s coming in and what’s going out. They know to the scent for years. So this, "Let me confirm," they already know what the budget is; they just don’t want to pay what you offered them for the coverage amount that they qualify for. 

So how do we get around that? "Hey, all good. Why don’t we do this in the meantime? We need to get some kind of minimum offer because you had mentioned this of why it’s important to you." So you bring up the beneficiary. "Hey, I know you mentioned your primary concern is making sure Susan is going to be okay handling funeral type stuff if you died. So why don’t we just do this instead of overspending or pushing the limits? Why don’t we just start at 10 grand? It’s $72 a month. It’s obviously way easier on your budget." 

Once they approve that, you’ll have a chance to talk to Susan, go through your budget stuff, do whatever else you’ve got to do, but you’ll have this entire 30-day window to do a review and make sure, "Hey, this is what I can sustain long-term," or "Hey, just call me in a couple of weeks, and I will help you do the increase." It’s super easy for us. 

And that is going to be how you do your presentation to close. I feel like it’s going to be really universal with any amounts that you show, whether they want to pay off the house or they want income replacement. "Hey, I need $300, and I need $500 grand." It’s all the same concepts. We are downselling into getting a yes, getting an approval for some minimum offer from the insurance company so that they have something to review, something to talk about, and they have coverage. 

So it kind of covers all your staple bases, but that’s a loop that I will do basically until I get a decision or they hang up. You pretty much have one shot with the majority of our customers to go, "Hey, you need this. You just submitted this. You told me why you wanted it. We set the structure phase of what’s going to take place. Now we’re into decision-making mode." 

So it’s time to figure out where you want your minimum to start so that if something happens tomorrow, you guys are good. Remember, they’re buying something invisible. We really do need to press because sometimes this is the last time they’ll ever look into it. If they don’t make a decision now, more than likely they’ll never make one. The longer they put it off, the bigger risk of health and the more expensive it’s going to be for them long-term. 

So we don’t want to oversell; we want to sell right in that perfect window of, "Hey, this is a minimum to start. If you want to increase, you guys have the next couple of weeks until your packet comes out to go through budget, call the kids, discuss whatever you want to discuss. Then you can call me. We still have an additional two weeks to really think about where you guys want to lay in long-term. If you do want to change it, just call me. I can go up, down, sideways, whatever." 

We’re never saying, "Hey, I can help you cancel it if you don’t want to keep it." We just need to get you submitted for approval. Don’t ever do that because you’re just selling yourself into a chargeback or a fake sale. It’s not real because it’s not going to stick. 

That is your big stuff on the presentation. The last thing I’ll include before we wrap up the presentation and close phase is when you’re inside the applications, this is the big thing that people get scared about: people not wanting to pay day one. You just have to let them know upfront, "Hey, as we discussed, we’re going to send your stuff in. Now, today is what? The 20th, for example. Hey, today’s the 20th. So when I send your stuff in, somewhere in the next 24 hours to five days, they’re going to approve and turn on your initial policy. Since we’re sending it on the 20th, it’s going to repeat on the 20th of every month until you change it." 

Typically, most companies will give you a 10-day up or down window. So after your first one is active, if you wanted to tweak it in the following months, I can help you move it 10 days up or 10 days down. And that is how you get them to make a same-day decision so that you’re not like, "Oh, hey, when do you want this to draft?" "Well, can we do the end of next month?" No, don’t do that. You’re just going to end up hurting yourself. 

Remember, you don’t get paid until the client pays. So if you just assume, "Hey, I’m assuming you’re like most; you want to have this thing live as soon as you can," I will tend to kind of go, "Hey, the carriers really don’t let us have a ton of wiggle room on your first payment because that’s what actually is your initial offer." 

Yes, and now you’re insured on all your reoccurring stuff; you can change it. Yes, you can post-date stuff. This is the only time I’m going to say I’m on board with moving the draft date. If you start to get into that like 25th of the month and later and they only get paid the first or the third, I don’t want to try to take a payment on the 25th and then they want it to come out on the first and take another one on the first, or it’s so close to their pay period that they don’t have the money in there because it was an unexpected expense that they were adding. 

So we do have some flexibility in that, but you don’t want to get into a habit of it being the fifth of the month and they’re like, "Oh, I needed to come out on the third. I will pay next month." They just got paid. If they can’t afford to make a payment on the fifth and their pay cycle is the third, that means they probably cannot afford the coverage long term. 

So then you want to down sell them into something smaller. I know that some of this might get smaller and smaller and smaller, but if they’re concerned about making their $80 payment two days after they just received their monthly paycheck, that means that they can’t afford that product long term. 

So again, you’re protecting yourself. You’re trying to sell to keep, not sell for some kind of issue paid report where you look at on paper but don’t keep any of your sales. So just keep that in mind when it comes to the draft time of your clients’ payments. You’re always assuming that, "Hey, your first one’s going to come out in the next few days, and then it’s going to repeat on the 20th or repeat on this day of every single month." 

Really try to be careful post-dating stuff with the exception you get into that last week of the month. That is when if you do have fixed or regulated income clients, they are going to need that to line up with their social security payment, which will keep your business more persistent by doing that anyway. 

So this is our sale cycle. Again, into a wide structure close, we included a suitability phase, a presentation, and close phase. I hope this was helpful to you guys, and then we’re going to jump into some rapid-fire objections that we run into next.
