Hey Fred. No. Hey, this is Easton just going for our life insurance appointment for veterans. Yeah.  
Hey, do you go by Fred?  
Okay, well, yeah, but I'm Easton. I just do all the eligibility and underwriting stuff to help figure out what you qualify for.  
So yeah, I got to request you 10 in. I guess normally it's just for smaller long-term stuff like 20, 30, 40 grand or something like that. Is that about what you're hunting down?  
No, I was looking for something a little more substantial like 150 to 250.  
Okay, 150 to 250.  
Okay, then let me make sure I got the right stuff for you here, Fred. I've got 8/20 of 47 as the date of birth.  
That's correct.  
Okay, and how young does that make you today?  
76.  
76. Okay, and we're trying to track down 150 to 250. Sounds like you're just trying to leave behind however much you can afford to, as long as it's a good swing for the budget.  
Yes.  
Okay, well, all this stuff, it's pretty easy. There's like 50 insurance companies that we use to help track down good insurance. It's state-regulated stuff, so it's only going to vary, you know, like five to ten dollars a month per company. They just all take different stuff.  
So I help you kind of figure out whoever's going to give it to you for the cheapest, and then you'll kind of design your plan. So for us, whether you did 20, 50, 100, 500, it doesn't matter what you do on our side. We just kind of help make sure that you can get approved for what you want to pay and what they'll offer.  
That makes sense.  
Absolutely.  
Okay, and then have you, Fred, have you done this before?  
No.  
No? Okay, so pretty easy stuff. I'm just going to run through some suitability questions with you. So I've got to ask age, income, house, health, current insurance, and then that kind of gives me enough information to shop around with these different companies and figure out who to actually place you with.  
Okay.  
So let me get fired up here at the top. So you're 76 years young. Do you smoke or anything, Fred?  
I did, but I don't want any loss. I quit.  
Okay, and how long ago did you quit?  
15 years.  
15 years?  
Okay, I just had to verify the timeline because you know how it is. Sometimes people quit this morning when they find out it costs extra. I don't want to know about the insurance business.  
Okay, so 15 years ago you quit, 76, and then who's like your primary beneficiary for all this stuff? Who's in charge when you pass?  
My wife.  
Okay, what's your wife's name, Fred?  
Marlena. M-A-R-L-A-N-A.  
L-A-N-A, Marlena. Okay, and Fred, is the same last name, correct?  
Oh, absolutely.  
Okay, and basically you're just looking for this chunk to leave behind for her to cover all the basis funeral bills, kind of all that stuff? What's the primary concern?  
It'll be a definite income change when I'm gone.  
Okay, so income change to cover all the basis, funeral bills, kind of all that stuff, if you can?  
Yeah, pay up the house, take care of her.  
House, take care of the wife. Okay, right. And then how's the head-to-toe health stuff, Fred? You in the last, you know, five years have you had like a heart attack, stroke, cancer, brain aneurysm, COPD, any major head-to-toe health stuff?  
None of that. I just went through a bunch of tests from my primary with the VA. I'm good to go.  
Locked and loaded. Okay. That makes it easy. What about like maintenance prescriptions? Do you take just blood pressure, cholesterol, thyroid, anything like that?  
I take cholesterol.  
Okay, just cholesterol?  
All right, all right. And then Fred, hey, what's your ballpark monthly income?  
Oh, okay, that's got to be 3,500.  
Okay, 3,500?  
So 3,500 is your portion?  
Yes.  
And then that's retirement and social split?  
That's correct.  
Okay, split. And then it sounds like based on what you're telling me, like the retirement has no survivorship on it, so she doesn't get to keep that part?  
I don't believe so.  
Okay. Yeah, I set that up when I was single.  
Understood, understood.  
Yeah, they don't do a good job of telling you about the survivorship stuff, and it might be, I'm thinking to get to a certain point, they won't let you change it anyway. So 8/20 of 47 is the birthday. And then basically what I'll do is once I punch in all your stuff, it'll come back with like some baseline minimum recommendations just to give you a ballpark idea where you're going to be at.  
And then you just got to tell me if you want to go north or south of whatever their minimum numbers are based on how much coverage it is and like where you're going to fit financially.  
Sound easy?  
You know, I'd like to establish a minimum of 150.  
A minimum of 150.  
Right, and just a cholesterol med, so that's good. And then you don't turn 77 till August, so getting in front of your age, which will be the increase, which is good news. And then it doesn't sound like you've got anything like active life insurance now, Fred?  
I've got the $10,000 policy from New York Life.  
It's a waste of time and a lot.  
Got it. So they just gave you a bad rating on that thing?  
I don't know what they give. I think that's just the to never A.O. Peace.  
Oh, yeah, that's not the no-go. That's not good.  
No. And then you're still, and now are you born in Vermont or did you move out there?  
I was born in Maine. I moved out here in '97 with my wife.  
Okay.  
All right, all right. So let me get this put. So the $10,000 basically just covers like funeral type stuff. And then this should be pretty similar because since it's all age and health-based, I'm guessing that they're going to give me quotes for like 5,000 and 150 to start is what they're going to give me.  
I can shoot the gap, like I said, north or south, however you want. The whole primary goal is for this stuff to help you guys financially, but not hurt you in the meantime, so that our student company won't let you overspend if they think something is out of budget and gonna hurt.  
Yeah, they'll make some recommendations.  
So that way, because it really only matters if you have it in place like on your last day. If you overspend for a big policy that hurts you and you have to get rid of it anyway, that wouldn't really do the wife a ton of good, you know what I mean?  
No.  
Okay, so because you're in such good health, it looks like you're going to get a preferred offer. And you're wanting this to be something that it never goes up or down, expires, changes. It just kind of like is what it is once you get approved, kind of thing?  
Yes, sir.  
Okay, so that will go through some kind of a whole life. I'm sure you've heard of these guys like Mutual of Omaha and Aflac and Gerber and all them?  
Familiar.  
So that's who some of the companies that we're going to run the rates through because they're kind of the cheapest ones.  
Well, Mutual has pretty good.  
Okay, so baseline minimum that this is going to spit out is 50 to start, and then I'll work up to 100 and 150. All right, so your 50 grand of permanent insurance on a fixed rate is $522.39 a month for the 50. Got that written down?  
522.  
Okay, and then the 100 grand, that'll come back right about $1,020 a month. So $1,000 a month for the 100.  
That's it?  
I'm out.  
Yeah, I figured the 100 might be a little high. The 50 would probably be a good minimum baseline starting point.  
Yeah, not at 500.  
Well, what I could do, Fred, is we could take a look at doing just a touch less because that way, it doesn't sound like your wife has enough financial relief if you were to pass. So why don't we just look at doing something smaller like 25 to buy her a little extra time?  
I'm going to back out of it right now. I'm just not sure which way I want to go. I'm trying to do this tool.  
Well, the 25 grand will go a heck of a lot farther than not having the extra 25 grand, and it will stay a lot easier in your budget. And if you don't have any other kind of financial relief solutions, this will be the cheapest option that you can get.  
Has to go through some kind of life insurance. So the 25 takes you down to only $280 a month. It's a little bit easier on the wallet.  
Yeah, that is.  
So why don't we just take a look at starting with 25, and then if you guys get into a spot where you want to add on a little extra, we can do that later. But at least give her a little extra wiggle room to have 25 grand because it's just going to get, you know, more expensive the longer.  
And actually, let me make sure that this is the, yeah, that is going to be the lowest. So you're 25, that's good.  
Yeah, so you're actually $262 a month for the 25, so that's a lot better.  
$262.  
And then do you know how, I guess you said you hadn't done this part before, so basically, I've got to get your information over to Mutual of Omaha for review. And then, you know, if they'll accept you for the 25 grand to start, there's a little reason that whatever hurts you guys month to month financially, correct? Like that's good for the budget?  
No, that wouldn't hurt me at all.  
Okay, I didn't figure my VAP, and that's...  
No, they won't do anything like that for you, but yeah, I figured we could at least get you kicked off with 25 grand to start. And then now if they approve you, they'll turn on your baseline policy. So you'll have the 25k for the $262, and then you and the wife will get a hard-copy packet out in the mail. So you'll have a chance to review your entire policy, and then if you guys want to call me to make any tiny adjustments to it, north or south, I can do it at that time. But you guys, they give you an entire month to review and adjust your policy as is.  
Okay, let's start at the 25 grand. You got your driver's license on you?