TITLE: Easton Padden - Fake Budget Objection.mov  
SOURCE_FILE: data/call_videos/Easton Padden - Fake Budget Objection.mov  
LANGUAGE: en  

Hello.  
Hey, Bill. What's going on? This is Easton.  
Oh.  
Easton. Yeah. Life insurance for veterans guy.  
Oh, good.  
Yeah, I was just calling to go through some eligibility.  
I saw.  
Oh, sorry.  
I didn't know I had insurance.  
Oh, you don't. You had sent me over a request for some information.  
I'm getting it.  
You put here in the Air Force.  
Yeah, I was in the Air National Guard.  
Okay. Well, yeah. So I am the underwriter guy that is in charge of helping you shop around to see what you can get and what you're looking for.  
I don't have any life insurance at all.  
Okay. So you don't have any. Are you just looking for something small like 10, 20, 30 grand?  
Yeah. About 20 grand.  
Okay, about 20 grand. And then who's going to be in charge when you pass away? Like who's that thing for?  
My oldest son will be in charge because I don't have a will or anything.  
Okay. So he will be the beneficiary for all your stuff.  
Okay. What's your boy's name?  
Jim.  
Jim. Is it Mower?  
Yeah.  
Okay. So Jim is in charge. And then, so what had you started looking into life insurance now since you don't have any?  
What was like the main concern?  
Well, I'm 72 years old. I've got COPD from FEMA. I'm on oxygen. So I want to have some kind of coverage.  
Yeah, the kids don't have the fork to open itself.  
Got it. So it makes sense. So basically if something happens to you, just making sure the kids have a little wiggle room financially so they're not having to come out all out of pocket for that.  
I've already got a cemetery plot. That's taken care of. I got one of them.  
Oh, okay. That's easy. So this is just to cover the kind of like the difference for all the ceremony type stuff.  
Yeah. It's a funeral parlor and a task and that kind of stuff.  
Okay. I'm sorry. Say that again.  
That should be a little bit cheaper than normal too, wouldn't it?  
Oh, yeah.  
Yeah. So I guess so Bill, this is what I'll do with you. It's pretty easy. I'm going to grab some info from you so I can figure out what insurance company to match you with. And then I'm going to shop through all these different companies and see who's the cheapest. And then whoever comes back the lowest, I'll pair you with them. And then you're going to pick your plan and your price. And I'm going to send that to the company asking for them to give you the green light.  
Cool.  
So right now, I'm maybe looking for a price.  
Yeah, you're looking to shop around to find the best price, correct?  
Yeah.  
Okay. So that's what our firm does. So we primarily focus on assisting veterans and shopping insurance companies. We have 50 of them that we're going to run all your stuff through. And the good news is insurance only varies about two to six or two to eight bucks a company anyway. So it's not a huge swing, but I just figure out who's the cheapest. So like Mutual of Omaha, Aflac, Aetna, Gerber, all the big companies. That's who we help you shop through.  
Yeah, I get this stuff from the mail about life insurance. 40, 50 dollars a month. That's kind of hard to make when you're on a budget.  
Well, anything that you get in the mail, I would just set on fire. Usually the stuff is pretty inaccurate. For my age at 72 years old being a male, I think you're 70 dollars a month. I can't afford something like that.  
Yeah, so we probably need to stay a little closer like the five grand range, just to cover the basics. That way you don't end up with something that's too expensive.  
Five or ten, either.  
Well, I don't care how much you get. I just need to make sure that you can actually afford to keep it forever because that's the only policy that matters. It's got to be in place for life.  
I think ten would be pretty good. It should be a fairly reasonable price. And it sounds like a non-negotiable. You need to figure out how to stay under 50 bucks a month to make sure it's affordable.  
You got it.  
Okay, so I'm going to grab your info, Bill. And then, however much I can get you for like 50 bucks or less, that's what we're going to do. Now, I don't, this isn't a lot to say. It's just giving me the pricing, right? So once I shop the companies and figure out who's going to be the cheapest, then I'm going to match you with that company. And then, if we get that far, I have to send a request for coverage application into that company to make sure that they will give you an offer back for what you're looking for. So I send in a written request for coverage to make sure that when you die, your son Jim has enough financial help left behind, so he's not coming out of pocket all by himself.  
You lost me. What I'm looking at is the price right now. And then I'll give you a tax. They go ahead and get it.  
Yeah, so we need to figure out some kind of help instead of none as like a bare minimum, correct?  
Yeah.  
Because you don't have any right now.  
Nope, right?  
Okay. How come you haven't gotten this taken care of prior? Like, what was the, do you have some issues with affordability or getting approved?  
Neither. I just haven't pushed for it. Just haven't taken a look at all. The more I think about it, I don't want to leave it. We got stuck with my mother and my dad. Neither one had insurance. So it all came out of my pocket.  
God, you guys kind of had to scramble to come up with the finances to bury the parents.  
Yeah.  
God, I'm sorry to hear that. That's probably pretty tough. And you know, I don't want to leave him sick. I've got two boys. Jim and Brian. They're close to my son. Jim's the oldest. Like I said, I don't have a will. From what I hear, he's going to have all the. He clean him and Brian.  
Okay. So, yeah. So between the boys, your biggest concern is making sure that they don't have to go through what you had to go through and like coming out of pocket for like really any money at all, much less five or ten grand.  
Yeah.  
Okay. So if I can find something that we can squeeze into your budget, basically we need to just make sure that you'll get an approval offer from the insurance company so that the boys are going to be good to go financially, correct?  
Yeah.  
Okay. So that is exactly what my job is. So I've got you 72 years young. Bill, do you smoke or anything?  
I haven't smoked since 2014.  
Outstanding. So did you kick it cold turkey or do you have to do the patches and all that stuff?  
Right. So I had to do the patches and everything and never first. But also I had several breathing issues and they took me to the hospital by ambulance.  
Oh, man.  
When I rode in the ambulance to the hospital, well, that ended it. I never smoked after that.  
Wow. So you just called it quits immediately.  
Yep. And I haven't had a cigarette or urge to have one since.  
But I feel like you might be the first person I've ever talked to that just like shut it down. That's a pretty hard thing to kick.  
Tell me about it. I used to be a truck driver. So I used to go through two packs a day to two and a half.  
You know, yeah. I didn't smoke all of them. Take a bump and out the window with it.  
Take a bump and into the actually. Two packs was nothing to go through being a truck driver.  
Oh, yeah. You can burn through that.  
Oh, especially like eight, ten hours on the road.  
Yeah.  
Okay. So you're 70. So you're born in 1952. Wait, wait, wait, are you 70?  
Yeah, you're 72. I'm doing that right.  
Yeah.  
And then.  
In that year.  
I was born in July.  
Yeah. So you're already passed.  
Yep.  
Okay. And then you're still in Wisconsin, right?  
Yeah.  
Okay. And then I know that you said you got a little touch of COPD and do a little smidge oxygen here and there. What any other medications that you're taking right now?  
No. I had a heart attack in 2016.  
Okay. I'm taking pills for that. The doctor's got me on medication. Everything's clear. Everything I am on is oxygen. I got to have oxygen at night when I sleep. And when I do anything.  
Okay. Got it, got it, got it. So a little nighttime. And then if you're like out and about, you grab a little to-go tank.  
Yeah.  
Okay. Um, let's see. What else do I got on here? You were still on Sunset Road in Grafton?  
Yes, Hannah.  
Right. That's accurate.  
Okay. And then I've got Jim would be the primary beneficiary. What's his birthday?  
July 22nd.  
I don't remember here. 51 or 50.  
50.  
So he would have been born in like 71 or 72-ish, 73 something like that.  
That. So we'll say 73. That'll put him at 51.  
Okay. 51. I have trouble once while remembering my age.  
Well, no, no problem. Um, okay. And then you're just paying rent on the apartment, correct?  
Yes, sir.  
What are you showing out for that thing every month?  
944 a month.  
944. And then do you got a car payment or anything?  
I pay three to three fifty-six forty-eight a month on a week.  
Okay. And then do you have any other like six-figure debts or big stuff that you're paying down on right now or just regular?  
Oh, sir. No, sir.  
Okay. So just maybe like utilities and food and a little fun here and there is all to left.  
Utilities and food fun. I don't get any fun.  
Utilities and food. What do you think that is another three, four, five hundred bucks a month or something like that?  
I would say so.  
Okay. Say five hundred to be on the safe side. And then do you know what your ballpark monthly income is?  
Jim?  
Or Bill, I'm sorry. What's your boy's name on here?  
I don't have the people. What do you write you?  
I get two thousand two hundred seventy dollars a month from Social Security.  
Okay. And six hundred and something from the military.  
Okay. So you're right about twenty-eight hundred give or take any other stuff coming in?  
Nope. That's my only income.  
My bills each month. You are approximately thirteen hundred a month. You left the cable car payment. All of that.  
Thirteen hundred outbound every month. And then.  
You got twenty-eight hundred coming in. Are you trying to put a little something into like an emergency savings fund or that extra?  
No.  
Fifteen hundred you just spend it every month?  
Yes.  
I need it. I got it in the bank a little bit in the bank.  
Okay. So spenders save a little chunk of that thing.  
Okay. So we'll say after bills it's about fifteen hundred. So we can easily squeeze a little insurance into there that will fit just fine with you to make sure Jim's got a little bit.  
It will be plenty small to give him some wiggle room.  
That sound good?  
Well, I see. I know. I've advertised me for this complex where I live. They're pushing the roundup for a two-bedroom. Up to one thousand twenty-four dollars a month. So I know I've got an increase coming.  
Okay. So it's going to go up about eighty bucks. We'll just call it a hundred. We'll just make sure it's safe. We'll call it a hundred extra. I don't overstand that way. I've got the task.  
I like it. I put twenty-one years into your National Guard. So.  
Oh, yeah. You see, you had a full career in there.  
Okay. So health stuff I've got. And then you said you don't have any insurance now. So I'm just putting all your stuff in here and then I'm going to go do a little bit of shopping.  
Hey, do you have a pen and paper, Bill, that I'm going to have you take down my state ID before we get too far here?  
Okay. Just let me know when you're ready. And I'll give you all the stuff.  
Okay. We're ready.  
Okay. So my first name is Easton. E-A-S-T-O-N. Like the bat.  
Okay. And my last name is Padden. P-A-D-D-E-N.  
P-A-D-D.  
Yep. D is in Delta. E-N.  
Yep. Echo November. P-A-D-D-E-N.  
Okay. And then my state ID number for Wisconsin is 1907.  
1907.  
1030.  
1030.  
You got it. Okay. I'm going to do a little shopping here while I'm going shopping. Can you grab your driver's license because I'm not going to be the first thing they ask for on the application.  
Okay.  
Okay. So I need your driver's license numbers. M-660.  
9305.  
22.  
43.  
0.9.  
0.9.  
Okay.  
Okay. It looks good. That looks like nine or eight.  
Okay. That's a