TITLE: Easton Padden - 8K Split Savings Close.mov  
SOURCE_FILE: data/call_videos/Easton Padden - 8K Split Savings Close.mov  
LANGUAGE: en  

Cool. Hey, Alan. Yes. Alan, this is Eason. I was just calling you. I got the request that you'd sent in on Facebook for veterans life insurance information. And I got that you put you're in the Coast Guard on here. Is that correct?  
It says your branch of service was the Coast Guard.  
Yes, sir. 22 years.  
22 years. Okay. And then date of birth is 10/20/1956.  
Yes, sir. Okay. Understood. Well, my name is Eason. I am the underwriter that is assigned to go over your eligibility and kind of figure out what you qualify for and what you're on the hunt for.  
Alan, usually when I get this in, that's are just looking for maybe 20, 30, 40 grand to leave behind. Is that about what you are looking at?  
Well, I wanted to leave that for my seven grandkids.  
Okay. I didn't know if you could get seven policies or I have to after times, whatever.  
The amount I want to leave them by seven and then get one policy. I don't know.  
Yeah, it kind of just depends on what that amount is. Are you looking to leave each kid like 10 to 20 grand or what's the ideal scenario?  
Well, I want to leave them something.  
Okay.  
I believe in it. The Bible says that inheritances is for the grandkids, not the parents. So. Yep.  
I just want to do my good grandparent thing.  
Okay. Well, this should be pretty straightforward. Alan, there's 50 insurance companies that we do underwriting for to help the vet shop around.  
So I'm just going to ask you a handful of questions to see who comes back the cheapest for you.  
And then you're going to design your plan and price exactly how you want based on what's good in the budget to the penny.  
And then from there, I'm just going to send all your stuff in and make sure that they'll take you for what you want so you can leave the grandkids stuff. Sound good?  
Okay. Let me ask this. Excuse me. I had a burp problem.  
I was told whole life is better at my age than.  
Correct. Yeah.  
But whole life. You don't know when you're going to die. So it goes term like if they go to that like 80 and I love day two, I didn't have anything right.  
You got it. Yeah. You don't want to go towards any term stuff at this point because the cost is about, it's not that much different, but then it's going to all run out.  
And when you go to renew your term after like 10 years, it's going to be insane what they charge you to try to keep your policy in force instead of taking out a whole life that never changes.  
It's fixed. It doesn't go up, down, expire, change.  
Right. That's what I'd like to have.  
I do have a term policy on me for 400,000.  
We have my wife as a beneficiary on that.  
You don't have that?  
No, I got it.  
And so that's what I got.  
Do you know when that term is supposed to expire?  
No, I don't. I think it was 30 years.  
Okay. So you're probably getting into the tail end of that thing, I would assume.  
No, no, I just got it like three, four years ago.  
Oh, are you sure? What do you pay month to month for that thing?  
So 180 or something like that.  
That math doesn't because I'm pulling up a 400,000 dollar term.  
And I can adjust it back to your age if you were four years younger.  
And it's going to probably be between like 1,800 and 2,500 a month.  
I'm sure that they gave you.  
I could be wrong. I could be wrong about the four years, but now I had one. Yes.  
Okay. Okay.  
Yeah. If I mean, if you picked it up maybe 20 years ago, that would be a little bit closer.  
But if you're only paying like 100 and some bucks, then I'm mathematically, it'd be dang near impossible for them to ensure you for that much.  
But anyway, you're going to, I'm not paying until it runs out. But this is, you're trying to buy a guarantee for the grandkids at this point. Sounds like.  
Yeah, I just want 100 grandkids.  
Okay. Well, yeah, let me run through some questions with you really quick, Alan, and then I'll do a little rate hunting.  
And like I said, there's, you know, 50 of the biggest insurance companies in the country. That's who we are going to do some shopping through.  
Let me make sure I still got you in Hawaii. Is that right?  
Yes, I'm in Hawaii.  
All right.  
And then 1956, how young does that make you now?  
It is six, I think.  
65, 67.  
All right.  
44 plus 20.  
25 is what?  
So you were born in 1956, right?  
Yeah.  
So 24 and 24.  
Yeah.  
So you are 67 years old.  
I've got you 67 years young, Alan.  
Yeah. Well, I am not young, but I am definitely feel 67.  
Well, 67 is young to the insurance company. You don't get old in insurance until you're 89.  
So you got a long time.  
That's 91.  
Well, you got some longevity in the family.  
Yeah.  
All right, Alan, well, hey, do you have a pen and paper on you?  
Because I got to give you my full name and state ID information.  
I gotta have that. Can you text it to me?  
I absolutely can.  
I can send a text or an email so you've got a hard copy of that thing.  
Just text it or shoot a picture of your card or whatever that fulfills the requirement.  
Okay, sweet deal.  
You got it all in that over here in just a minute.  
All right, Alan. So I've got you 67 years young. Do you smoke or anything?  
Nope.  
Don't drink.  
No, no hard drugs are dealing or anything like that?  
Nope.  
Okay.  
Okay. Did you do pills or insulin for that?  
Just pills.  
And ozempic.  
So metformin and ozempic.  
Yeah.  
Okay. Have you ever had like heart attack, stroke, cancer, brain aneurysm, any of that stuff?  
Never had a stroke or anything like that, but I had a brain aneurysm removed before, blue.  
What year?  
Oh, two years ago.  
Okay, so you're good. A couple of years out of that thing.  
To be truthful, it was for them.  
Geez.  
And they got rid of all of them.  
Yes, sir.  
Okay.  
All right. Let me get back on here.  
And then so you said you've got the term that your wife's a beneficiary.  
And then you've got seven grandkids that you're going to do this one for.  
Are they all in Hawaii? Are they scattered around the US?  
They're scattered between Washington, Oregon, and Germany.  
Geez.  
Okay. Belgium, my wife says.  
Okay.  
And you're retired full time. You're not working or anything, Alan?  
Not working.  
Not working.  
Okay.  
22 years in the Coast Guard and 13 years at the Hawaiian Electric.  
Okay. Wow.  
Okay. So suitability questions, age, income, house, health, current insurance.  
We did a little bit of health stuff on here.  
I got your age, 67 years young, non-smoker.  
So now I've just said I'm going to exercise for ten years.  
It's not like how you guys are dating like real life, you've already got a policy for her.  
This is a grandkids there in Washington, Oregon.  
And would you say Belgium?  
Bel?  
Belg...  
Belgium.  
Belgium.  
Okay.  
And then are you guys still have a mortgage on the clap of place?  
Yeah, I do.  
Okay.  
Still more aging.  
2,000, but two grand.  
And then do you guys have any other properties or six figured that's the chip in a way at now?  
I have a property in Michigan that I'm selling to my nephew probably this month.  
Very cool.  
Okay, so he'll take that thing over completely.  
Yeah, so family farm.  
Okay, and that's in Michigan.  
Yes, okay.  
What about like car payments and just regular bills?  
You guys still knocking down payments on a few cars or anything?  
I don't have any car payments. My wife has a car payment.  
So hers is paid off as well?  
I think so.  
Yeah, she just told me.  
Okay, so that's paid off.  
And then outside of that, are you just doing like regular utility stuff or do you have any other like outgoing bills month to month typically?  
A couple hundred bucks.  
Okay, just credit card stuff.  
I got two or three credit cards on P&I.  
Okay, are they about 1,000 to 1,200 between all of them or they less?  
That's about right.  
Okay, you just put about right around a grandish on them every month.  
One's a little more. One's maybe 4,000 I think is my PayPal one.  
Oh yeah, you're just making regular monthly payments on that though, correct?  
Right.  
Okay. How about my just minimum?  
Okay, so outbound, you're roughly right between like 3,000 and maybe 3,500 that you send out every single month for bills.  
Yes, so you could be upwards of 3,800 to 4 would be the highest it ever gets all in. I don't know.  
Okay, my name is retired and get social. I get I'm retired. I get I'm a hundred percent VA disabled. So that's four grand right there. Not counting my military retirement and my social security.  
And what are those totaled up?  
I get about 8,200.  
Okay, and then you said your wife gets a little bit of social each month.  
Well, she retired from the IRS so she got her own thing. I don't know what it is.  
Okay, all right.  
She has her own deal and so you handle all that the bills and stuff she doesn't and she does her own thing.  
No, she's an accountant.  
Okay, okay.  
I don't think she'd let me touch her.  
Understood. That's fair enough.  
Okay.  
Okay, so you got about 4 grand ish of expenses, 8,200 coming in just for your stuff and then whatever your wife's situation is.  
And it makes sense what you're looking for.  
Oh, go ahead.  
I got 25 coming into me for my postcard retirement.  
Okay, and she's got the rest like six some.  
Okay, okay, got it.  
And then yeah, there she is.  
Well, you have your VA 100 percent. You said it's four grand, right?  
Okay. Your VA pay.  
Okay. And then social and some change.  
Okay.  
And then are you guys trying to put stuff into an emergency fund or a site account for those grandkids or is that what you're going to use this money for for the insurance?  
No, I just want them to be if something happens to me.  
Okay, that makes sense. I got you.  
I want to be able to leave them something.  
Yeah, the nice thing about the permanent insurance is all of it. All whole life type policies will all have interest on your payments.  
So it doesn't you don't get a lot of, you know, cash value or interest your first couple of years, but they'll all build cash value.  
The longer that you live, the longer you have the policy, the more cash is going to be inside that thing.  
Does that make sense?  
Just so.  
So it'll do better than your bank. But it's not going to, I mean, it's not going to make you a million bucks or anything, but it at least gives you a little bit more than the bank does at zero.  
Okay, so maybe a perfect world between 70 and 100 grand or something for the grandkids.  
And then you can kind of work up or down from there. Is that kind of what you're thinking?  
10 grand a piece and then maybe a little extra if it makes sense in the budget?  
No, I was trying to get them like 30, but could.  
Okay, 30 to 50.  
Okay, you know, I figured by the time they get it, it's going to be like 50,000 just for a gallon of gas.  
It might be.  
Hey, if they're, it's 50 grand for a gallon of gas. I'll be doing a lot of bicycling and running around, I think.  
Well, hey, let me, let me, my grandparents, my grandparents, you know, a thousand dollars with a lot of money that my dad got.  
Yeah, yeah, sure has changed about having that.  
Yeah, and just want them to be, you know, taken care of a little bit.  
Yeah, it sounds like you're coming from a really good place trying to just leave your grandkids a little extra help.  
So yeah, just to recap, I'm not missing anything. 67, don't smoke, no major health stuff in the last few years.  
The primary goal is just trying to leave as much. Other than the aneurysm.  
Yeah, but that's two years.  
Yep, that's good. The two-year window is good for that. It won't be an impact player for your eligibility for whole life because it's been two years. So that's no problem.  
Okay. And then what I'm going to do, kind of what I do as a baseline job, Alan, is we're going to figure out, hey, what's the minimum amount that you want to leave behind of the grandkids.  
That's an easy fit for your guys' budget.  
And then I'm going to send that minimum to the insurance company. It should be a green light.  
And if they'll take you for that minimum amount, they'll send you guys all your stuff out in the mail.  
And then they'll give you an entire m