Yeah, we're with the B a. I'll tell you say that. Hello. Hey, Gwendolyn. This is Ty calling you for that life insurance appointment for veterans. Is now still a good time for you? 

Yeah. All right. Let me pull this out for you. And then it looks like Gwendolyn, you're the beneficiary and we're looking for coverage on. We'll say is that correct? 

Well, actually, I'd like to get a quote on both of us because if either one of us dies, we probably need to do something about the mortgage. 

Okay. So the main objective then is covering both. Also, if something happens, either way, the mortgage is taken care of basically. 

Yep. This is the mortgage. That's all we need. Just the mortgage. 

Okay. Understood. Well, again, my name is Ty. I'm the underwriter. So these plans, it's pretty simple. There's no blood work or physicals. As the underwriter, I just got to run through some basic health questions with you. And then from there, I'll be able to pull up the plans and the options and figure out what makes sense to you. All right. 

So let's start with him. It says here he is 80 years old. Is that correct? 

He'll be 81 on Saturday. 

So he's 81 on Saturday. It's coming up. He'll have a birthday plan or just hanging out? 

Yeah. That's good. Well, it's good that you're, so his rates as an 80-year-old will be better than 81. 

So yeah, you'll get plans with a better rate at 80. So, and then how young are you, Gwendolyn? 

62. I won't be 63 till tomorrow. 

Okay. 62. All righty. And then for either one of y'all, any cancers, heart attacks, or strokes in the last 10 years? 

No. 

Okay. And then what about major surgeries in the last 10 years? 

I had a hysterectomy, but that's it. 

Okay. Oh, I had my gallbladder out too, but that's all. 

Okay. Not a problem. And then prescription meds, y'all take anything for like diabetes, blood pressure, asthma? 

Yes. He takes a medication for urology. 

Okay. 

I can't remember the name of it. I'm sorry. 

Oh, that's all good. I think I know. Yeah. Yeah. That's not a problem. He hardly takes any medicine at all. He's really healthy. 

Really healthy. Good. Good. 

I'm the one, I have diabetes, and I take metformin. 

Okay. 

I take metoprolol. 

Okay. 

Atorvastatin, I think it's called. 

Yeah, for cholesterol. 

Yes, ma'am. 

Okay. 

And levothyroxine for thyroid. 

All right. 

And I take 70/30 insulin shots. 

Okay. 

Sure. 

Yeah. 

Okay. And then do either of y'all smoke? 

No. 

Okay. We don't smoke or drink. 

That's good. All right. 

And then his medical stuff, is that all done through the VA? Or does he go to the private sector for some of that? 

He goes to a private doctor. 

Okay. And then does he have a disability rating through the VA or no? 

No, he's not disabled at all. He was in the army, but he didn't get injured or anything in there. 

Okay. All right. And then that's it for the health questions. Now just because we're looking at taking care of the mortgage, that's the main concern, right? 

Yeah. How much a month is your mortgage payment? 

Right now it's 1335, I think it is. 

Okay. All righty. And then is there a good amount of equity in the house? Do you know what it's worth? 

Yeah. The house is worth about 600,000. 

Okay. 

It said like 620 the last time I looked, but I don't think it's worth 620. 

Oh, I don't think it's, it's a good house. Maybe just not 620. 600 is fair. If you think they usually inflate it just a little bit. 

I mean, yeah. 

And that's because they inflated a little bit, but I mean, it's at least 600. 

Yeah. 

That's good. Well, I'm sure it's a beautiful house, regardless. 

It's nice. 

Yeah. 

That's good. And then would you say that that's it for all the questions? I'm going to pull up these plans. I guess just so I pulled the right ones. You say that one of y'all is more of a concern than the other, like some folks when I talked to them, maybe one spouse makes more money. So if they pass, it would be a little bit more of an adjustment. Is that the case here? 

Or is it about a 50/50 income household? 

I'm going to say it's 50/50 because if I pass, he loses my social security, which is $900 a month, which could make or break him. I can get his social security, but then I lose mine. 

So it's 50/50. 

Right, right. Yeah, because you keep the larger of the two. So either way you slice it, the income would pretty much be cut in half either way. 

Well, not in half, but it would be cut like a third, which is a good bit. 

I mean, yeah. 

Well, that's quite, I mean, basically, it would cut out what y'all probably put towards, you know, the mortgage payment. 

1300, it probably, you know, you lose close to that amount. So I could see why it's a concern to take care of the house. 

Yeah, we just don't want to lose the house if one of us dies, you know. 

Right, especially with the amount of equity that's in there, we want to keep the bank's hands off that and make sure that the surviving spouse has time to adjust. 

One thing to consider, the plans are just loading up now. Now, one thing to consider is, of course, I'm not sure if you have life insurance now, but the older you get, the premiums start to creep up a little bit. 

Yeah, I know. 

Well, we'll talk about that with him. I think it's kind of too late for that, but with me, maybe not. 

Yep. And so the way they recommend structuring the plans, because what we don't want to do is get a policy that's going to take food off the table and hurt financially, we got to find something that relieves the burden, but also fits comfortably every month, right? 

Right. 

So the way that they recommend we structure that to be the most cost-effective is when, let's say hypothetically, when he passes away, we set up the policy to where it'll pay the mortgage payments for you for a period of time, whether it's, you know, some three months, six months, 12 months, however you want, it'll take that burden off your plate, so it gives you time to adjust and kind of transition with his passing. 

And then, of course, the same the other way, if something happened to you, it would give him, you know, six, 12, 18 months, however you design it to adjust and make sure that y'all don't lose the house. 

Yeah, depending on the cost, maybe 18 months because when you're grieving, it takes a while to get through the terrible grief at first, so. 

Yeah, no, I hear it. So have you experienced a loss? You've lost someone before? It sounds like you kind of know what that process looks like. 

My mother lived with us for 13 years and I lost her, and I was her caretaker. I mean, she pretty much took up my time 24/7 for 13 years, and when she died, it was really, I just couldn't function for quite a while. 

Right. 

Yeah, no, I think you make a great point because, yeah, I don't think people realize the grieving process alone could take several months to a year, if not longer. And the last thing you want to have to do is, you know, if your loved one passes away, you got to go run to the funeral home and then run over to the real estate office to try to, you know, gamble. 

Yeah, so these plans, they'll provide peace of mind to make sure that you have adequate time to adjust. 

That would be great. 

Yeah. 

So, so let me pull up these plans, and what we got to figure out now is just, you know, which plan provides enough time, but also, you know, fits comfortably in the budget. Make sure it doesn't take food off the table, right? 

Right. 

So the system is going to give us initial recommendations, and then we can adjust up or down based on your preferences. All right? 

Okay. 

So let's start with, I'll pull. 

And did he go by Joe? 

Yeah, he goes by Joe. 

Okay. Yeah, I see the email is Joe Salas. So let me pull up Joe's first. Or we'll take a look at his, and then we can pull up your plans as well. 

Okay. 

So for him, the first recommendation coming back is for a plan that will cover the mortgage for six months after he passes. And that one comes in at $109 a month for his policy. 

Okay. 

Now based on that, do you feel like that's comfortable or do you need me to adjust the timeframe up or down? 

Well, can you give me a quote on up, you know, in case it would give me a little bit more time? 

Yeah, let's look at 12 months just to give you a reference point here. 

Okay. 

So if you got a full year of mortgage payments squared away for you, the premium on that one is about $214 per month. 

Okay. Let's do six months. That's all I can afford. 

Stick with the six months. Okay. 

Now, did you still want me to pull up the plans for yours or just start with him for now? 

Let's just do him for now. I think that's all we can afford for right now. Eventually, we can do me, but right now we can't afford more than that. 

Okay. Understood. All right. Well, let me pull up the, we got to apply for the coverage. So let me pull up the application on my end. 

And then have you all applied for insurance before, like life, car, health insurance before? 

Well, we have car insurance and health insurance, yeah. 

Okay. Yeah. These applications are very similar. So just like when you applied for car insurance, these life insurance applications, the carrier is just going to want to know who they're insuring. So they're going to ask for standard info such as, you know, social to verify the medical records, of course. And then a good home address to mail your policy to. And then, you know, whatever bank you want to use, they're going to ask for the routing account number on there as well. 

Okay. 

So let me pull that up, and you've got all that stuff with you there? 

I'll have to go upstairs, and I'm in the basement right now, but I do have it. 

Okay. No worries. We can. It's going to ask me a couple questions, I'm sure, prior to having you go grab those, but let me pull this up for you. 

Okay. 

And then I know he's 80, what is his date of birth? 

Alrighty. 

Yeah, and you really picked the best time to get this because as an 81-year-old, his rates would have just been higher. So, but at 80, they're locked in. So that's good. 

Okay. 

Alrighty. 

And then legal spelling of his name, Jose, J-O-S-E, last name, Salas, S-A-L-A-S. 

Uh-huh. 

Is there a middle initial you want me to use on this? 

And like Nancy. 

And like Nancy. Okay. 

And then it's asking what state was he born in? 

Texas. 

Nice. Me too. What part? I grew up in the Dallas, Fort Worth area. 

Oh, he was born in Brownsville. 

Oh, down there in Brownsville. Okay. Yeah. 

Yeah. 

That's about as south as you can go. 

Pretty much. 

Yeah. Right there on the Rio Grande. 

Okay. Yeah. 

Is that where you're from as well or? 

No. He had found me to California, and that's where I'm from. 

Okay. Yeah. My dad, he's from California. He grew up in Glendora, which is outside of LA. 

Oh, okay. I'm northern California. 

Northern. Okay. 

I've always heard northern is better. 

I think it is, but that's, I mean, I grew up there, so that's my humble opinion. 

Yeah. 

I got you. 

And then, what is Joe's height and weight? 

He's five feet five or five feet four really probably now. 

Joe, how much do you weigh? 

Yeah. 

I'm going to say like 145. 

I don't know. He's not fat. He's in good shape. 

Yeah. 

Okay. 

Yeah. I mean, he's not. He doesn't have a six-pack, but he's not big and fat or anything. 

Hey, if he had a six-pack at 80, I think he'd be the only one in the world. 

Yeah. 

Well, he never has. But that's okay. I don't care. 

I'm with him there. I can't stay away from the ice cream. 

He's in good shape, though. 

I got a weakness too. He loves ice cream. It's too good. 

Yeah. 

And then, of course, he's a US citizen. It's asking, what is his social for the medical record check?